# DeepRL-MDTSP

A solution to the Multiple Depot Travelling Salesman (MDTSP) problem using Deep Reinforcement Learning, Attention Networks, Graph Neural Network (GNN), Genetic Algorithm (GA), and Fuzzy Logic.

## Table of Contents
- [Description](#description)
- [Features](#features)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)
- [Contact](#contact)
- [References](#references)

## Description
This project proposes a novel computational intelligence architecture that combines DeepRL, GNNs, and Attention Networks to effectively solve the MDTSP. It also uses a fuzzy genetic algorithm that performs optimal depot selection using the pre-trained model.

Idea from the paper "A reinforcement learning approach for optimizing multiple traveling salesman problems over graphs".

## Features
- **GNN and Attention Mechanisms**: Creation of node, graph, and agent embeddings leading to a stochastic agent-to-node assignment mechanism.
- **Deep Reinforcement Learning**: Utilizes these embeddings to learn a strong policy and find an optimal solution for the MDTSP.
- **Genetic Algorithm and Fuzzy Logic**: Determines the best depot for each agent using the RL model. The integration of fuzzy logic enhances the algorithm's performance.

## Installation
Ensure you have the following dependencies installed:

- [OR-Tools](https://developers.google.com/optimization/install/python)
- Pytorch
- CUDA
- [Pytorch Geometric](https://github.com/pyg-team/pytorch_geometric)
- [Scikit-fuzzy](https://github.com/scikit-fuzzy/scikit-fuzzy)

## Usage
- File train.py has the training code. File test.py and validation.py do the test and validation.
- Data can be generated by the data_generator.py (Uniform Distribution) and data_generator_Newman.py (Newman-Scott process). GA_DataGen.py generates data using the genetic algorithm
- ortools_tsp.py solves the tsp problem for the reward calculations while vrp.mdtsp solves the MDTSP for the baseline comparison with the model.
- cmpnn.py has the Message Passing Neural Network and policy_mdtsp.py code related to the policy.
- genetic algorithm.py has the simple genetic algorithm while GA_FuzzyMutation.py the fuzzy-mutation genetic algorithm.
- The other files do the comparisons between OR-Tools, RL-model and genetic algorithms used in the project report.


## Contact
- Name: Odysseas Karagiannidis
- Email: okaragia@ece.auth.gr

## References
1. Hu, Yujiao, Yuan Yao, and Wee Sun Lee. "A reinforcement learning approach for optimizing multiple traveling salesman problems over graphs." Knowledge-Based Systems 204 (2020): 106244. DOI: [10.1016/j.knosys.2020.106244](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.knosys.2020.106244).

```bibtex
@article{hu2020reinforcement,
  title={A reinforcement learning approach for optimizing multiple traveling salesman problems over graphs},
  author={Hu, Yujiao and Yao, Yuan and Lee, Wee Sun},
  journal={Knowledge-Based Systems},
  volume={204},
  pages={106244},
  year={2020},
  publisher={Elsevier}
}



